Making faces
In this lesson we will animate
the approach to the face scene,
where we will focus on
the character's expressions.
In the previous scene I added
a last move to the character,
in which he begins to stand.
So, the moment we make the cut,
We can continue the
movement with this scene.
This kind of thing helps us
connect one scene with another
and at the same time it simplifies us
not having to show the complete movement
of the character.
I followed the process we had been
using to encourage the character,
animated with vector layers, with
changes of position and rotation.
What I did keep in mind is
that the movement of the character
when standing it is
different from when it falls.
Deal with the torso, raising the
shoulders first and then the head.
I made the cut right then,
so when we follow it
with the next scene
We can make the
character appear on the floor.
Let's do the usual, and
convert our layers to vectors.
Luckily, the Illustrator
file was interpreted perfectly,
even on the face where we have a
clipping mask applied to the eye.
Now we are going to
link the Path of the mask
with the white part of the
eye, just to have to animate one.
Now what we can do is
animate the pupil figure
and it will be perfectly masked
and when we move the white
part the mask will move too.
We will do the same
with the other eye.
This should be achieved in order
to perfectly animate all objects.
We will do the same with
the other side of the face.
Now we focus on animation.
Let's go to the beginning,
let's give it a position keyframe
to all objects and
one of rotation to all.
And we will select all Paths,
except those with the duplicate
expression, and we add a keyframe.
First we create a null, which
we will link to our character
to make our character appear
from the bottom of the scene.
The character does not
have to disappear completely,
better if you don't,
because at the time of the cut
The character is already on the
move, is already in transition.
Let's give a little overlapping here.
For now we leave aside
the animation of the null,
to focus on a false
face rotation movement,
So then we combine both
movements for a sense of dimensionality.
If you stand in front of the
mirror and look at your head
making a "yes" movement, up and down,
you will see that when the head
lowers the front of the face also lowers
but the ears and the
back of the hair go up.
That's because the axis of the
face is quite centered on the skull
and the parts that are farthest
they move in the opposite
direction to those that are closer.
That we try to simulate
when we make a face move.
Let's take advantage that we
can deform the face completely
and we're going to fine tune the
jaw when you look straight ahead
since it is as if
we saw it from above.
This part of the hair will be
like a jopo, it becomes more round
when leaning forward.
There more or less we
have a sense of rotation.
We have to consider that the
head, having the axis in the neck,
when leaning you should move forward.
If not, it seems that the
face is going backwards.
Once we are happy with
the movement of the face,
We can accommodate other parts
of the body, such as the torso.
For now, keyframes have
a linear acceleration.
It is better to ensure a good
movement of all the elements accordingly
before applying acceleration.
The torso could be
forward, as if inclined.
And we can give it some
rotation to exaggerate the movement.
There is good. Now we lack hair.
We are going to place it
more or less where it belongs.
And we reconnect
everything with the null.
Let's not change the
things we already have linked,
but only link those
that are not linked.
If we link the torso and
the hair, and the others,
being linked to it, they
will be linked in a chain.
Now we have to work on acceleration.
We give it a very smooth deceleration.
There we see that by
linking the two movements
We already have a simulation
of that volumetric movement.
Maybe we can tilt
our face a little more.
Remember that sometimes
when adding new keyframes,
If that position was not
animated, it will generate new curves.
We will continue to encourage the
hair to give it a little more life.
Let's give it a little bounce up
and for the opposite
side from which we come.
We can make it come a little lower.
There is a little more exaggerated.
Let's see how the transition works.
Well, pretty good.